[Music]
hello and welcome history buffs my name
is Nick Hodges and ever since I started
this channel I wanted to do a gangster
movie
[Music]
based on the book wiseguy by Nicholas
Pileggi this is the true story of mafia
mobster Henry Hill and his life in the
Lucchese crime family but Goodfellas is
much more than just another gangster
film in my opinion it is the best mafia
movie ever made
you can't deny its impact because after
Goodfellas we got a surge of excellent
mobster movies in the 90s but it was
Goodfellas that paved the way and it's
now become a huge part of our pop
culture how am i funny I don't know you
say funny things what do you mean by
that why I said you're swell and so you
shame that I got a big head is that what
you saying
what am i a bloated puffy round head
here to amuse you I make you laugh I'm
here to fucking amuse you well your
gangster rap certainly amuses me oh yeah
I'm deadly serious this actually
happened Joe Pesci the star Goodfellas
had a rap song called wiseguy this is
what you're watching right now you have
to see it to believe it baby the street
all the doors like trash you'll catch
your past if you move too fast I taught
my class you don't have an ass getting
everything my plan
- what a cow or mate I'm only kidding
sometimes you don't sound like you're
kiddin you know there's a lot of people
right
I was only kidding you can't expect to
make a shitty hip-hop music video and
not be made fun of but okay fine maybe
I've taken it a bit too far I promise
not to make any more jokes okay I'm
sorry I'm sorry okay cool
sorry - guys as well for getting a
little sidetracked there's a lot I want
to talk about in this review so as
always I'll be discussing the true story
the film is based on and how much did it
get right so let's not waste any more
time
this is Goodfellas
[Music]
Henry Hill was born in 1943 and was
raised in a run-down part of Brooklyn
New York to an Irish father and Sicilian
mother along with his six other siblings
he grew up in a typical blue-collar
working-class family already from an
early age life's prospects seem limited
to Henry as he suffered from a multitude
of learning disabilities such as
dyslexia attention deficit disorder and
hyperactivity none of which had been
diagnosed at the time which meant his
difficulty with school was met with very
little sympathy even a fucking principal
one day told me I got a bad voice right
and I can't carry a fucking to him and
my principal Thomas Henry um um don't
sing the national anthem a Jeanette not
you being told you can't sing the
fucking national anthem that's all
sucked I read something you dig I like
school no I did and then when I went to
school I'd be sitting in a fuckin corner
looking at the wall because they thought
I was a fuckup
because they weren't able to understand
what was going on the teachers at the
school thought he was messing about and
intentionally been disruptive this of
course led Henry to resent school
convincing him that there was no future
in his education so what was the point
of even trying when I first watched the
scene I just labeled Henry as a bad kid
but after researching him I can totally
sympathize with this contempt for school
as someone who also suffered from severe
dyslexia and dyspraxia I didn't have a
fun time in school either and I actually
had support whereas Henry didn't so he
really didn't have a chance and they
used to gonna taught me to and smack me
the back of a fuckin head you know -
yeah okay I didn't know the alphabet
until I was like in my 20s
honest to god this is the truth and it
was fucked up growing up but these guys
gave me a lot of out of voice and a lot
of money you know me for doing nothing I
don't
in fact meanwhile the guys he's talking
about where members are Paul Vario screw
a capo in the Lucchese crime family
across the street from this house was a
cabstand which operated as one of their
fronts from his bedroom window Henry
would watch these mobsters step out of
their expensive Cadillacs with their
flash jewelry and tailored suits he
found the whole lifestyle to be
intoxicating and it was this small
glimpse into their world that convinced
him that he wanted to be one of them he
started off by getting a job at the cab
stand and doing menial tasks like
dropping off packages parking their cars
but he loves the glamour of it and above
all feeling valued I see people like my
father could never understand but I was
a part of something and I belong I was
treated like a grown-up every day I was
learning to score a dollar here dollar
there I was living in a fantasy book bit
by bit
his responsibilities as the capstan
became less harmless and increasingly
illegal instead of dropping off packages
he was selling stolen cigarettes instead
of parking cars he was blowing them up
the lack of an education he would have
normally have gotten in school was now
being replaced by one made on the
streets arguably the most important
lesson he ever learned was when he got
busted at the age of 16 congratulations
I pinched everybody gets pinched but you
did a right it told him nothing and they
got nothing I thought you were men and
I'm Eddie I'm proud of you
you took the first place like a man
and you learned of two greatest things
in life well I mean never rat on your
friends and always keep your mouth shut
however what the movie doesn't show was
that right around this time young Henry
was having some strong reservations
about the direction his life was taking
him after his arrest when he was 16 he
started thinking of how to get out and I
realized you know when I was about
sixteen seventeen he start you know they
asked me do more things for them you
know what I mean I says fuck this this
this shit ain't right yes I'm getting
out of this fucking business in 1960
Henry joined the 82nd airborne and left
New York in an attempt to distance
himself from his life of crime however
whilst he was there he fell back into
his old criminal habits such as gambling
loan-sharking and stuff like that
eventually he got thrown into the
stockade for fighting and stealing a
local sheriff's car I was discharged
from the army after a few years he
returned in 1963 to New York and it
didn't take long before he was back with
the mob and the crew Henry Hill ran with
was led by a man called Jimmy Burke now
in the movie his characters called Jimmy
Conway and I haven't been able to find
out exactly why that is apart from legal
reasons considering the fact that Jimmy
Burke was still alive when Goodfellas
came out I'm guessing he didn't want it
screwing up any chance he had for parole
so anyway upon his return to New York
that was when Henry reunited with Jimmy
birth was taught the ropes and more
lucrative criminal activities the
biggest moneymaker for the crew of
course was hijacking trucks coming out
of JFK Airport thirty billion dollars of
cargo had passed through it every year
and they had such a well-planned system
that at times they would be able to
hijack two to three trucks a day
eventually got so bad that the United
States government made a film warning
drivers however it was kind of pointless
because according to Henry Hill up to
75% of the time the drivers were in on
it so you got to understand we grew up
near the airport
it belonged to Paulie and we had friends
and relatives who worked all over the
place and they would tip us off about
what was coming in and what was
moving out if any of the truckers or
Airlines gave us any trouble Paulie had
his Union people scare them with a
strike it was beautiful it was an even
bigger moneymaker than numbers and Jimmy
was in charge of it all
whenever we needed money we'd Rob the
airport and that's exactly what they did
and for about four years they made a lot
of money but then an opportunity came
along in 1967
they'll put Henry Hill on the map in the
eyes of the Mafia the Air France robbery
biggest war coming from their friends
you know like the bags of money like
this come on okay the tourists American
servicemen have changed they're moving
to French money send them back here okay
now the guy talking to Jimmy and Henry
is Roberts Frenchie McMahon who worked
as an Air France Foreman and in the
movie he's the one who lets Henry and
Tommy into the depot in reality he only
tipped them off about the score and
didn't have the keys they needed for the
vault they belonged to another guard who
couldn't be bribed but after a few weeks
of watching him one weakness of his was
discovered women
so Jimmy hatched a plan where they would
get the guard blind drunk driving into a
motel where a prostitute was waiting as
soon as he had taken off his trousers
that was being distracted by the
prostitute they swiped his keys copied
them and replaced them leaving him none
the wiser
and just like that Henry and other mob
associate Tommy DeSimone were able to
wander freely into the Air France depo
and walked out with nearly half a
million dollars as expected with true
mafia custom the loot was shared with
the Vario crew bringing Henry a lot of
respect with his share Henry made his
final attempt to distance himself from
his mob pals it was another way of
trying to fucking you know insulate
myself
fucking lunatics that you know then why
was partners with him you know you know
hoping to go legitimate he bought a club
in Queens New York called the suite
after a few months though it quickly
became just another mob hangout he just
fuckin followed me you know and the
place you know the fish thrived and
became fuckin headquarters and then one
event would take place in 1970 that
sealed Henry's fate and any possibility
of leaving the Mafia would be gone and
that was the murder of Billy batts
now in the movie Tommy DeSimone kills
Billy batts over a petty argument
hey Tommy if I'm gonna break your board
I say they go home and get you shame but
some more shines Billy what I seen no
more shines maybe you didn't hear about
it you've been away a long time didn't
go up there they I don't shine shoes
anymore this is only partially true that
conversation really did take place but
in Jimmy's bar the Roberts lounge a few
weeks before the occasion was a welcome
home party for Billy batts who just got
out of prison and Jimmy was only just
able to restrain Tommy from hitting the
guy however whilst Billy bass was in
prison
Jimmy had taken over his loan sharking
rackets and now that Billy was out he
wanted it back and Jimmy was like
bollocks to them or giving you shit so a
few weeks later Jimmy and Tommy worked
out a plan to get Billy back stinking
drunk in Henry's Club the sweet one
light and when everyone had left that
was when Tommy and Jimmy made their move
[Music]
[Applause]
now these psychos have killed a lot of
people but this one was different and
reason why was because Billy was a made
man in the Gambino crime family a main
man was basically a special membership
in the Mafia
and one of its privileges was there no
one could harm me without permission
from your family's boss otherwise they
would get killed themselves and to make
things worse Billy batts had very
powerful friends one of which was John
Gotti the future boss of the Gambino's
so Henry Jimmy and Tommy dumped Billy
into the boot of their car and drove out
to Connecticut to bury the body but out
on the road however they started hearing
sounds from the boot of the car in one
moment they all knew Billy batts was
still alive it was sickening
it was fucking sickening it was actually
sickening you know now that Henry was a
witness and an accessory to the murder
of Billy batts there was never any
chance of him being able to leave the
life now not without being killed
himself so he fully committed himself to
the mob and did whatever Paul Vario and
Jimmy Burke told him in 1972 Jimmy Burke
and Henry Hill were arrested for beating
up Johnny Chacho a gambler in Tampa
Florida for not paying a large debt and
it turned out that the guy's sister
worked with the FBI and informed her
co-workers what had happened after a
lengthy investigation pretty much
everyone in the barrier crew including
Paul Vario was sent to prison
Henry received 10 years in the federal
penitentiary for interstate gambling and
assault but what's really shocking to me
and I'm sure to Henry Hill is one of the
time is that being a mobster in prison
was not that bad when you think of
prison you get pictures in your mind of
all those old movies with rows and rows
of guys behind bars but it wasn't like
that for wise
I mean everybody else in the joint was
doing real-time all mixed together
living like pigs but we lived alone and
we own the joint I'm gonna be honest
with you I was convinced that during my
research this was gonna be one part of
the movie that was heavily exaggerated
for dramatic effect but amazingly only
slightly this pretty much sums up
exactly how crooked the penal system was
back then we give the impression of it
being breezier than it was to add to the
irony of it with the music that's
playing and that sort of thing and
getting a lobster's but this was well we
had guards who told us this is the
reality to him it was all there it's all
there I mean there's certain people who
were privileged and in order to have
those privileges they had to pay two to
three thousand dollars to the guards
every month so without being able to
earn on the outside Henry had to find
new ways to earn on the inside and that
was when he started dealing drugs fellow
prisoners would tell Henry that the
amount of money he made from hijacking
trucks was miniscule compared to what
they had made from selling cocaine
heroin etc on the streets prison for
Henry was more the place to network with
other criminals outside of his mafia
circle and he pretty much received a
college education by the end of it when
he finally got out in 1978 after serving
five years of his ten-year sentence he
immediately began using the connections
he had made in prison and started
dealing narcotics however all of this
was done in secret since was forbidden
sell drugs in the Mafia the penalty for
doing so was death so no word of this
could reach Paul Vario
but he was able to bring Tommy and Jimmy
in on it and they made a lot of money
later that same year a score came along
that would forever immortalized Jimmy
Burke screw and make the Air France
robbery look like nothing in comparison
and these are the guys that Jimmy put
together for what turned out to be the
biggest heist in American history the
Lufthansa heist on December the 11th
1978 acting on a tip-off from Henry and
his friend marcin Krugman Jimmy's crew
broke into the Lufthansa Cargo terminal
and a gunpoint robbed the entire vault
walking away with nearly six million
dollars in cash and jewelry five heavily
armed masked men the day fled with an
estimated three million dollars in cash
and $300,000 in jewelry
from the Lufthansa Airlines Cargo hangar
at New York's Kennedy Airport
however what should have been a time for
celebration especially since they had
pulled off the score of a lifetime and
didn't take long before things started
ascending into chaos the truth is these
guys had no clue they were gonna walk
away with that amount of money they
figured that there would only be like a
million dollars waiting for them in the
vault by stealing six million dollars
the eyes of the world were upon them
since every crook and cop in the city
immediately knew that the Vario crew
were responsible and it didn't help when
a few of these idiots started buying
Cadillacs in pink fur coats much to the
clear disapproval of Jimmy Burke and it
didn't stop there one of the robbers
stacks Edwards was supposed to dispose
of the getaway van but instead this
genius decided to drive to his
girlfriend's house get high and fell
asleep and the next morning the police
had found the van with his fingerprints
all over it with stacks jeopardizing the
entire crew it could only end one way
for him this was the beginning of the
Lufthansa murders Jimmy Burke became
increasingly paranoid with all the
public attention that other members and
his crew could possibly link him to the
robbery but another factor came and
played pure greed when Jimmy's crew
learned of the true mounts that had
stolen he started demanding a larger
share Henry I want my fucking money and
so Jimmy Burke the poor various blessing
starts systematically killing everyone
involved in the robbery for months the
police were finding bodies all over the
place and in total up to ten or so
people were killed now you might ask
yourself why wasn't Henry killed too
well Henry were smart enough not to
demand his share when he started seeing
his mates being killed off but Jimmy was
also making a lot of money through the
drugs Henry was selling so for the
moment he was still useful to Jimmy
but one murder would take place that
Jimmy was not responsible for and would
never have signed off on well at least
according to Henry a week after
Christmas Jimmy and Henry were in
Florida sorting out some drug deal and
Tommy remained in New York because he
was going to be made
Jimmy was particularly excited because
tommy was a close friend of his at a
diner they were waiting for the call of
Tommy's initiation when Jimmy learns the
hint and killed by the Gambino's for the
murder of Billy batts and another
mobster whom Ronald foxy - Rove it's
been speculated that was John Gotti
himself who killed Tommy now this just a
couple of things to like to elaborate on
with this murder that the film doesn't
cover even share Tommy in the face so
his mother can give him an open coffin
at the funeral that's technically not
true his mother couldn't give him an
open coffin simply because there was
nothing in the coffin tommy DeSimone
just disappeared and his body has never
been found there also might have been
another reason why tommy was murdered
but it's a little complicated so I'll
try to keep it simple according to Henry
Hill Paul Vario was having an affair
with his wife Karen and when Henry was
in prison tommy DeSimone tried to rape
karen when she turned him down for sex
when Karen told Paulie what had happened
he apparently approached the Gambino's
and told them about Billy batts about
foxy everything that Tommy ever did so
that reason along with possibly wanting
to remove yet another link to the
Lufthansa heist maybe why tommy was
killed but these are just theories
because his murder still remains
unsolved today so by 1980 Henry was
heavily addicted to the drugs he was
selling every day he was snorting
cocaine heroin and popping fistfuls of
quaaludes I mean it was getting
ridiculous I am actually very impressed
he was able to stand let alone function
fucking drugs I'm making my little
Moishe
Harry not only that but this was right
around the time when the FBI was really
started to clamp down on the mafia with
their heavy surveillance and their
high-profile arrests but this kind of
heat it was only a matter of time before
Henry got nicked now what's really funny
is when the police arrested Henry they
weren't able to find any drugs on him I
think they just found like a single
quaalude in his pocket or something that
was until they got to his girlfriend
who've been preparing Henry's drugs at
her house and
had never bothered cleaning up the place
the cops found drugs on cooking utensils
on the walls on the carpet I'm sure just
by hoovering the place they had a whole
sack full of evidence to use against
Henry Henry was now screwed in more ways
than one not only was he facing 25 years
to life but he also had to worry about
Paul Vario because he had broken the
mafia strict law against selling drugs
and he had now become a liability to
Jimmy Burke because he was the last
survivor of the Lufthansa heist I know
Paul would want to whack me Jimmy was
gonna whack me you know it was it was so
fucking crazy
with no way out henry became the very
thing he had always hated a rat he
cooperates with the FBI for full
immunity and told him everything about
the Lufthansa heist all the scams the
rackets the murders the robberies the
hijackings everything he had ever
witnessed in his life with the mob his
testimonies put away 50 mobsters behind
bars including Jimmy Burke and Paul
Vario the evidence presented by Henry
really shook the criminal underworld and
showed the public just how much of a
grip lacasa Nostra had on American
society he ran everything paid off cops
we paid off lawyers we paid off judges
everybody had their hands out everything
was for the taking and now it's all over
and it really was for Henry he and his
family went into witness protection and
were moved to Omaha Nebraska under new
identities it was a second chance for
Henry to start over again but he was
never able to truly move on from his
criminal past he became a heavily
addicted to drugs and especially alcohol
and in 1987 he was arrested on drug
trafficking charges in Seattle
eventually due to repeat his criminal
offenses he was kicked out of the
witness protection program and pretty
much ever since then the only way he can
make any real money was by constantly
reliving his life in the Mafia so it's
not surprising to me why Henry Hill
became such an alcoholic when he was
always being reminded that the horrible
things he did during his interviews for
books movies radio shows and
entries some guys leave the life and go
quietly about their business others
leave the life and make it a career that
they've left the life there out of the
life but they still want to cash in on
the life and they're making it a payday
it was a culture shock to say the least
with a book deal and a movie deal you
know I mean I thought I was gonna be
left alone and open up a little
mom-and-pop restaurant cuz I had always
been I know his own restaurants or
nightclubs
you know just fade away into the you
know to do a wind of happy destiny it
did turn out that way
[Music]
when I said earlier that Goodfellas is
the best mafia movie ever made I really
meant it and I think by the end of this
video you understand exactly why I
believe it is but when I decided to
review it I did not want to make the
same point everyone else has made I mean
it's like some people have forgotten
about what made this film great in the
first place and they can only identify
iconic performances and great camera
work and then there are some people who
don't even do that they just worship
Goodfellas based on its cult status
what's up movie monsters as we make our
way through the legendary I am db2 we've
already seen some pretty great movies so
far but now we're up for something good
maybe by legendary wolf of wallstreet
director Sir Martin
let's break down all the reasons this
movie number one came out 1990 die hard
- Back to the Future Part Felicia
Turtles Goodfellas talked about era the
infant classic Chris don't believe the
hype check out who else agrees with me
the Academy of Arts and Science more
impressive so see British Academy of
Film and Television Nickelodeon Kids
Choice and cinema editors this guy look
familiar
believe it or not this is actually the
same dude from a home alone can't unsee
it Bastien oh my god I hate YouTube
sometimes anyway the point I'm trying to
make is if we look past the glass past
the camerawork and past the performances
you will still find plenty of really
cool stuff to talk about like for
example how groundbreaking and authentic
Goodfellas is with its portrayal of the
Mafia and actual history in fact by
exploring this I think you can
appreciate Goodfellas even more because
what this film does very well is that
account as the romantic image of the mob
an image that began in the 1930s with
gangster classics such as the Public
Enemy Little Caesar and of course the
original Scarface these films were based
on the crimes of the day and real-life
mobsters who are glamorized by the
public and since these gangster films
were almost an urban extension of the
Western the same myth like status old
outlaws had such as Billy the Kid and
Jesse James when I applied to mobsters
like Lucky Luciano and Al Capone so the
romanticized depiction of the Mafia
would continue even with one of the
greatest films in American cinema
The Godfather now I'm sure I'm gonna get
a lot of hate from this from the
comments section but the Godfather is
not a great example of authenticity
I mean first and foremost is based on a
book by Mario Puzo and was presented on
the screen is very operatic I mean it's
larger than life and idolizes admirable
qualities such as honor and respect that
the Mafia were not really interested in
and also nothing to consider is that
when the Godfather was made the Mafia
were at the height of their power and
they even used it to influence this
movie directly
around that time the producer the
Godfather came to visit Joe Colombo he
sent for him and Joey actually looked at
the script of the Godfather back then
and he took any reference to the word
mafia he pulled it out of the script
getting the Justice Department of the
United States to ban the use of the word
mafia that's pretty good political power
hmm kinda makes you wonder what else
might have been changed or omitted from
the script but anyway that's just my
opinion with the Godfather it's a
brilliant work of art but it's pure
fantasy as far as I'm concerned
whereas Goodfellas definitely comes the
closest and just showing us how
psychotic these bastards really were I
mean their power was not based off honor
and respect but fear and intimidation
which they used brutally and effectively
and since everyone was terrified of
these lunatics they had free rein to do
whatever they wanted like for example
this scene now according to Henry Hill
this actually happened during one card
game the bartender Michael spider Janko
forgot to bring Tommy his drink an
extremely drunk and enraged Tommy
demanda that spider danced for him and
shot him in the foot a week later spider
was serving drinks and Tommy began
mocking his leg cast to which spider
applied and punch of her fuck yourself
town everybody began laughing even Jimmy
Burke who congratulated spider on
standing up to Tommy
but when Jimmy started poking fun at
Tommy that was obviously too much for
him
now you might say to yourself but of
course Tommy did that he was a total
psycho in the movie well if you start
researching into the real people these
characters are based on you will see
that they are all just as violent as
Tommy even Paul Vario who's presented
the movie as a father figure to Henry
used excessive violence there was one
occasion when a young Henry was driving
around with Paul and he saw for the
first time what Paul Vario was capable
of took some fuckin baseball bat at it
back in a fuckin car walks in a fucking
bar and I could see it you know was he
starts hitting the fucking bomb he was
fucking baseball pen
I mean beating the shit his fucking
woman you know what a fucking collarbone
she she ratted on him that he was going
out with it you know Tess fucking wife
or some bullshit yeah I was just you
know stupid shit like that but I mean to
fire holy fuck was it you know I I never
seen that part of him as you can clearly
see these were not noble gangsters
living by a code of honor they
terrorized the communities they lived in
in fact these were just a few of the
many more stories that would encourage
anyone to look up if they're interested
in the technical achievements of good
fellows are all made to support this
theme of authenticity which I feel is
sometimes overlooked like for example
when we look at the famous funny house
scene I gotta say that even though Joe
Pesci looks nothing like the real Tommy
DeSimone who was like 6 foot 2 and
weighed about 225 pounds this movie
absolutely nails his character if you're
a film geek like I am then I'm sure
you're aware that the whole scene was
improvised and based on a real-life
experience Joe Pesci once had yet it's
totally appropriate
Henry Hill himself said that he lived in
fear every day of his life this little
scene shows us that these criminals can
flip out at any given moment let me
understand this maybe hmm what fucked up
maybe well I'm funny how I mean funny
like I'm a clown am you you I make you
laugh I'm here to fucking amuse you what
do you mean funny funny how how am i
funny just you know how you tell the
story what no no I don't know you said
it how do I know you said I'm funny
how the fuck am i funny what the fuck is
so funny about me tell me tell me what's
funny your music career well that about
wraps up my review for Goodfellas this
was the film I've been wanting to do for
a while now and it truly does deserve
its spot as one of the greatest films
ever made
does its technical achievements in the
craft of filmmaking deserve praise yes
of course it does and it's not my
intention to dismiss it but I just get
frustrated when that is the only thing
people talk about and they just skip
over the incredible story Goodfellas is
telling I can't tell you how many times
have had this conversation with someone
who insists that Goodfellas is one of
their favorite movies but they are
completely oblivious that is based on a
true story and yet that same person will
tell me in great detail how awesome the
editing sequences when Henry is coked up
and running his errands now I know how
incredibly sensitive people get when
their favorite movies face criticism so
I'm doing my best to word it as
carefully as I can all I want to do with
this review is shine a light on
something I feel is often overlooked in
favor of filming techniques like that
stuff is cool
but let's not forget about everything
else that made it cool to begin with the
biggest challenge any historical film
faces is how much does it get right and
I'd say Goodfellas is about 80 to 90
percent accurate of course creative
liberties are taken with details being
changed with the characters or the
timeline or event taken out entirely but
the end result of this film shows me
just how much of an effort Martin
Scorsese made in getting the story right
that alone is worthy of recognition and
praise and that's all I really wanted to
say I mean hopefully I gave you
something else to think about and not
just obsess over that bloody Steadicam
shot oh my god top five number one best
Steadicam one-take and
down it's just so dynamic and it's all
in one take who misses practical effects
me I love this shot my dad loves this
shot you all love this shot you voted
for it certified fresh' on Rotten
Tomatoes 89% Metacritic shut the fuck up
it's not the only Steadicam shot ever
made even swingers did it better what
no no no no
[Music]
you